// eng starts //

Breakout is an arcade game developed and published by Atari, 
Inc., released on May 13, 1976. It was conceptualized by 
Nolan Bushnell and Steve Bristow, influenced by the 1972 Atari 
arcade game Pong, and built by Steve Wozniak aided by Steve Jobs. 
Breakout was the basis and inspiration for certain aspects of 
the Apple II personal computer. The game was ported to the Atari 
2600 and was followed by a 1978 sequel, Super Breakout, which four 
years later became the pack-in game for the Atari 5200 console. 
Breakout spawned an entire genre of Breakout clones, and the 
concept found new legs with Taito's 1986 Arkanoid which itself 
found dozens of imitators.

In Breakout, a layer of bricks lines the top third of the screen. 
A ball travels across the screen, bouncing off the top and side 
walls of the screen. When a brick is hit, the ball bounces away 
and the brick is destroyed. The player loses a turn when the ball 
touches the bottom of the screen. To prevent this from happening, 
the player has a movable paddle to bounce the ball upward, keeping 
it in play.

// eng ends //


// swe starts //

Breakout är ett arkadspel utvecklat och publicerat av Atari,
Inc., släpptes den 13 maj 1976. Det konceptualiserades av
Nolan Bushnell och Steve Bristow, influerad av Atari 1972
arkadspel Pong, och skapad av Steve Wozniak och med lite hjälp från Steve Jobs.
Breakout var grundinspirationen för vissa aspekter av
Apple II-persondatorn. Spelet portades till Atari
2600 och 1978 kom en uppföljare, Super Breakout. Fyra
år senare blev det ett "pack-in-game" för Atari 5200-konsolen.
Breakout skapade en hel genre av Breakout-kloner, och
konceptet fångades upp av Taito 1986 Arkanoid som själv
hittade dussintals imitatorer.

I Breakout finns ett lager av tegelstenar på den övre tredjedelen 
av skärmen. En boll flyger tvärs över skärmen och studsar mot 
skärmenväggarna. När en mursten slås, studsar bollen bort
och tegelstenen förstörs. Spelaren förlorar en spel-runda när bollen
passerar förbi skärmens undersida. För att förhindra att detta händer,
har spelaren har en rörlig paddel för att studsa bollen uppåt och hålla
det i spel.

// swe ends //
